---
layout: page
title: Research
---

# The Ideological Nationalization of Mass Partisanship

### Policy Preferences and Partisan Identification in State Publics, 1946–2014

Working paper with [Devin Caughey](http://caughey.mit.edu/welcome) and [Christopher Warshaw](http://web.mit.edu/~cwarshaw/www/).

*Abstract:* Since the mid-20th century, elite political behavior has increasingly
nationalized. In Congress, for example, within-party geographic cleavages have
declined, roll-call voting has become increasingly one-dimensional, and
Democrats and Republicans have diverged along this main dimension of national
partisan conflict. The existing literature finds that citizens have displayed
only a delayed and attenuated echo of elite trends. We show, however, that a
very different picture emerges if we focus not on individual citizens but on the
aggregate characteristics of geographic constituencies.  Using estimates of the
economic, racial, and social policy liberalism of the average Democrat,
Independent, and Republican in each state-year 1946–2014, we demonstrate a
surprisingly close correspondence between mass and elite trends. Specifically,
we find that: (1) ideological divergence between Democrats and Republicans has
increased dramatically within each domain, just as it has in Congress; (2)
economic, racial, and social liberalism have become highly correlated across
state-party publics, just as they have across members of Congress; (3)
ideological variation across state-party publics is now almost completely
explained by party rather than state, closely tracking trends in the Senate; and
(4) senators' liberalism is strongly predicted by the liberalism of their
state-party subconstituency, even controlling for their party a liation and
their state public’s overall liberalism. Taken together, this correspondence
between elite and mass patterns suggests that members of Congress are actually
quite in synch with their constituencies, if not with individual citizens.


# Do Legislators Respond to Redistricting?

### Positioning in the California Legislature

Working paper.

*Abstract:* Do legislators respond when redistricting leads to changes in the
policy ideology of their districts? This paper assesses repositioning among
members of the California legislature after the 2012 redistricting cycle, when
an independent commission redrew the state's electoral map, inducing large,
exogenous shocks to the composition and policy preferences of many districts.
The paper identifies the extent of dynamic responsiveness that follows, while
improving on previous measures of district ideology. Contrary to prior findings,
there is little evidence of responsiveness to shifts in district preferences
from redistricting. That legislators appear unresponsive in the face of such
changes speaks to the kind of representation that constituents receive and the
obstacles facing reformers.

# Disconcerted Voters

### Adverse Effects of Voter Authentication on Perceptions of Election Integrity

Working paper.

*Abstract:* Voter ID requirements have applied to a larger proportion of the electorate in
each election since 2000, in keeping with the growing number of states with
stringent ID laws. This trend represents a change in the Election-Day experience
for many voters. In a reflection of public debate, prior research on voter ID
requirements emphasizes turnout effects and the incidence of illegal election
activities. In this paper, however, I assess the impact of ID requirements on
public opinion. I use matching techniques and survey data from 2008 and 2012 to
examine how implementation of voter ID requirements influences voters'
perceptions of election integrity. I find that among comparable voters, those
asked for photo ID before casting a ballot are less confident in the American
election system. In particular, voters asked for photo ID are more likely to
report that voter impersonation is a frequent occurrence.
